and thank you very much for your assistance as
you all know today sends them very
difficult today we have experienced an accident
terrible dramatic and that I'm afraid is going to
stay for a long time in
our memories for a santiagués
as I believe that this is the day of the
apostle
I want to translate in my name in the
of the government of Spain and everyone
those Spaniards who can feel
represented by what I'm going to say
my regret to all the families and friends
of people who have died that
Unfortunately, there are too many of me
I want to tell these families and those
friends who will not be alone
and that the solidarity of all
Spaniards will always be with you
I also want to manifest my best
wishes
for the wounded I hope they recover
they are many too
the people injured after the accident
yesterday and had the opportunity
to visit some of them this same
morning at the clinical hospital
University of Santiago and so could
be transmitted
I want to thank all of you
public officials and employees of
all sectors its behavior has
been admirable and exemplary of the
security forces and bodies of
been the one of the people who work
in the different organisms of the
ministry of development of services
Emergency personnel firefighters
sanitary I have been now of how they
I said before in the clinic of Santiago and
yesterday when people had knowledge and
he had news of the accident he
they volunteered so many
public officials and employees is
say that they were willing as
they were there all night
working by operating people
taking care of her and trying to thank everyone
It has been very comforting
thanks also to the neighbors of
santiago because yesterday there were many people
who willingly went to help
bring blankets to try
that some people who were injured
they could leave there they have worked
they have put everything they have and what
better of yourself and I think you have to
To thank them
thanks also to so many people
who already volunteered to donate
blood in all hospitals of
Galicia where there were people there
moments they told me this morning that
there were queues of more than 500 people
Volunteers had to donate
blood
all this I say again I think it is
very comforting and shows the
generosity and solidarity of the
Spaniards at a time as difficult as
this one that we are living thanks to the
ribbon I think the coordination between
two administrations has been exemplary
thank you very much
I want to tell you that at this moment
they are carrying out two
investigations that are as is logical
coordinated one is the investigation
judicial and another is the investigation of
the commission of investigation of
railway accidents that depends on the
development ministry the objective is to
as quickly as possible and for
course approaching fully in the
diagnosis you can know which ones have
been exactly the causes of this
very serious railway accident I want
tell them also that I have given
instructions to the promotion ministry
and its services that to the greatest
possible speed recover the
normality in rail traffic and
I hope this can be done
naturally also subject to the
decisions that can take power
judicial
I insist I hope it can be carried
out of this
instruction as quickly as possible
right now
a capital challenge a very important challenge
because we already have experiences of these
matters in spain 'which is to identify
the people who have passed away
do you know that this
Unfortunately, many times it is not
easy but we are fully aware
that families can not live in
a situation of uncertainty in this
moment under the direction of the
corresponding judicial authority
public officials who deal
of this subject are working already there
some people who have been
identified in some cases are
is communicating to his family and
let's hope that all this under the
address I insist on the authority
judicial can be absorbed into the greater
haste
I want to tell you also that today I am going to
sign a decree of the presidency of the
government declaring three days of mourning
official in all of spain the next I want
finish this intervention by giving the
thanks to the political groups of
our country that have been interested in
the government charged
tragic event I want to thank
the international leaders who are
many who have called this morning to
Palace of the Moncloa
to give us your support your affection and your
honey and I want to thank you
also to the media that
they have worked hard and they are
informing Spanish society of a
issue that obviously does not
You would have to report never or
even of course
gentlemen thank you very much
feel